We all need advice from time to time, but so many of us tend
to ask for it in such a lazy and unproductive way. So in
this episode, I'm going to teach you the right way to ask
for advice.
Alright, so there are four crucial things that you must do
before you ask anyone for help or advice. These things are
even more important than actually asking for the advice. I
mean, you can't even ask for advice correctly until you've
done the following four things. Number one, you need to know
exactly what it is that you want and you need to be as
specific as possible.
Right. Because there's a difference between saying, "I want
food" and "I want a double cheeseburger with extra onions,
no pickles, and no ketchup, with french fries on the side
and a large Coke with no ice." There's a difference between
those two things. So when you say those two things to
someone, you're going to get two different responses. And
the more specific you are about what you want, the higher
the chance you actually get it, right? So you have to be
specific and you have to know exactly what you want. Step
two, reverse engineer your goal. Now, when I say that, when
I say "reverse engineer", what I mean is start with the end
goal in mind, right? Discover exactly what you want in a
perfect world, what would happen, and once you know that,
once you have your goal, walk backwards until you reach your
starting point. This is one of the most effective ways to
figure out where you should start when trying to achieve a
goal or start a new project or whatever it is. Start with
the end in mind and work backwards, right? So let's say
you're trying to run a media company, but you can't make all
the videos yourself. But that is your goal. That's exactly
what you want - to produce videos. Well, if that's my goal,
what has to happen before I can produce these videos? I need
to hire a team. Okay.
For that to happen, what do I need to do first? I guess I
need to find talented individuals. Okay. For that to happen,
what do I need to do first? I guess I need to create a job
posting so that they know the position is available. Right,
okay. For that to happen, what do I need to do first? I need
to figure out which job sites I can post on to find these
individuals. Okay. For that to happen, what I need to do
fir... You see what I'm saying? So eventually you get to the
point where you know where you need to start. I need to
write a job description, find a job posting website, post
the job, and find the individuals. Only then can I build a
team and start producing videos. Hopefully, that simple
example makes sense. You start with the end in mind. Just go
back, back, back, back until you reach where you are right
now and then you know where to start. Okay, so number one,
know what you want. Number two, reverse engineer your goal.
Step number three, ask yourself, "what should I do?" "How
should I do it?" This is extremely important. Before you go
ask somebody else for advice, ask yourself for advice. And
there are many reasons you should do this. The main reason
is because many times, if you just ask yourself for the
question to the answer that you have, the answer is inside
waiting. It's just sitting there waiting for you. But you
have to ask if you hope to receive. Every time you ask,
you're gonna receive it. Just believe that. So you have to
ask yourself first. Another important thing is that when
you're constantly running to other people for advice or
their opinion or asking them what you should do, you're
constantly teaching yourself that you cannot be relied on.
You're teaching yourself that you cannot depend on yourself.
That's why you're always running to other people for advice
or opinions or instructions or something like that. So when
you ask yourself first, you acknowledge the fact that you
are capable of solving your own problems or at least trying
to solve them. You see what I'm saying? And you might just
find the answer sitting in there waiting. So always ask
yourself first what you think you should do. And a lot of
times people might do that, "okay, well, what should I do,
self? What should I do?" And nothing comes to mind, right? I
understand that. But the point is, always ask yourself
first. Think for yourself first. And once you realize "I
genuinely don't know, I have no idea", then go to somebody
else and ask for advice. But before you do that, we go to
step number four. The final step is try that shit. Right?
Know... Identify exactly what you want. Reverse engineer the
goal. Ask yourself how you should go about achieving that
goal and taking those steps and then try it. Just try it and
see what happens. You have to experiment if you hope to
learn, right? You got to fuck up to learn the lesson. You
can't learn without making the mistakes; you can't learn
without trying or experimenting. So ask yourself what you
should do and then try that shit. Only after having
completed these four steps, may you ask someone else for
advice. And now let me teach you the right way to ask for
that advice. Step number one. Step number one is actually
not obligatory. You don't have to do this. This is just
something that I like to do. And that step is to acknowledge
your ignorance and their expertise. When I say their
expertise, I'm talking about the person you're asking for
advice from. You see what I'm saying? Acknowledge your
ignorance and their expertise. Right? Acknowledge the fact
that you don't know what you need to know. And you're coming
to them because you believe that they can help you. So it's
like, "Man, listen, I don't have any experience in this
area. I'm not sure if this is something you would know, but
I really look up to you. I know you have experience in this
field, so hopefully you can use your experience and
expertise to give me some advice on this thing. I really
don't know much about it, and that's why I'm asking you,
because I feel like you are much more of an expert than me."
Alright. Just communicating that from the very beginning
kind of sets the stage. You're acknowledging that you don't
know shit because if you did, you wouldn't be asking
questions. You're also acknowledging that you respect and
value their perspective or their opinion or their
experience. And people love to be flattered, right? I mean,
it feels good when somebody says, "I feel like you're an
expert in this and I value your opinion so much that I'm
coming to you for advice about this." That's a good thing. I
like to do it, but you don't have to. Okay, step number two,
describe the situation or state the problem clearly and
concisely. Okay? Don't talk for 20 minutes about your
problem without ever asking for advice, but also don't talk
for 2 seconds without giving context and information, right?
Don't just say "I want food." You say "I want a double
cheeseburger, extra onions, no ketchup, no pickles. Medium
fries, large coke." And obviously I'm not talking about just
food, but hopefully you can see the difference between those
two ways of describing a problem or a situation. So describe
it clearly and concisely; give context. Okay, step number
three, explain what you have tried in order to solve your
problem.
Right? It's so frustrating when somebody comes to me for
advice, and not only do they not clearly explain the
situation and what they want to happen, but then we find out
that they haven't even tried to solve their own problem yet.
They're just trying to go to somebody else and say, "Hey,
solve my problem for me." This is not the right way to ask
for advice. You need to explain, first of all, what the
problem is clearly, what you want to happen, and what you
have tried, and why you think it's not working. Okay, so
that's step three. Step four, ask what they would do if they
were in your position. Because you need to remember that
there's a difference between advice and instructions. Just
because you go to somebody for advice and they give you some
advice doesn't mean that that's what you should do. That's
what they would do if they were in your position. And
there's a huge difference between those two things, right?
Because if you're constantly asking people what you should
do and just doing what other people tell you all the time
without thinking for yourself, there's no guarantee that you
won't end up in a worse position. Right? Because if you
didn't explain the situation clearly enough, give them
enough context, and they give you advice anyway, and you
take that advice. Now you're taking advice that was given
based on, let's call it "vague context", based on
something...the response is based on...like a...an
incomplete explanation of the problem. Hopefully that makes
sense. So ask them what they would do if they were you. Now,
I want to keep this episode as short as possible, so I'm
going to give you a real world example that happened just a
couple of days ago. I was trying to upload a video to my
YouTube channel. It was like 49 minutes long or something
like that. It was a pretty big video. So I'm trying to
upload it and three times in a row, I tried to upload the
video and it gets stuck on 82% uploaded. Just stuck for
hours. It won't move. And I'm like, "Man, what the fuck is
going on?" Right? So I try on Chrome; I try on Safari.
Nothing's working. Nothing's working. And I know just a
little bit about web development, software engineering, and
things like that. And I have a few developer friends, so I
know just enough to have something like an intelligent
conversation with developers. And one of my good friends,
Daniel Perez, shoutout to you, man! I sent him a message
because I know he's a frontend developer and I'm actually
going to read you the message I sent him that involves all
the four steps of asking for advice that I just explained to
you. So I'm pulling up the message now, give me a second.
Alright, here we go. Here's the message I sent to him.
"What's up, bro? I don't know if this is something a
frontend developer would know, but I've tried to upload the
same YouTube video three times now and it gets stuck at 82%
every time. I restarted my computer, cleared my cache, I've
tried on Chrome and Safari, and nothing works. Do you know
what might be causing this? None of the YouTube videos I've
watched have suggested anything effective." That's how you
ask for advice. You understand? I told him what I'm trying
to accomplish. Upload the video. Right? I told him
what I tried to solve the problem. I tried this, this, and
that, and nothing works. Now, do you know what might be
causing this? What would you do if you were me? I've looked
at different videos, fucking forums, blog articles. Nothing
is working. Do you know what might be causing this problem?
That's how you ask. Now he has context and he knows what I'm
trying to do so he can better help me solve my problem. So
we go back and forth. We actually had a conversation about
this. We're troubleshooting, trying to discover what the
problem is, and he's given me recommendations and things
like that. And eventually, I do solve the problem. But the
point is, if I would have come to him and just said, "Hey,
developer, I'm trying to upload this video and it keeps
getting stuck, what should I do?" What is he supposed to do
with that information? There are so many questions he could
ask to try to discover what the right thing to do would be.
Right? There's so many factors, so many details. But if I
clearly and concisely explain to him what I'm trying to
achieve, what I tried and did not work, and what I want from
him, which is just advice on what I should do next or what
might be causing this, now, he can answer my question
directly and quickly. I'm not making him do any of the work.
I'm not making him pull information out of me so that he can
help me with my problem. When you're going to ask somebody
for help, help them help you. You don't make them do all the
work, right? You have to make it easy for them to say yes.
You have to make it easy for them to share their expertise
or their perspective or their knowledge with you. And you do
that by what?
Number one, knowing exactly what you want. Number two,
reverse engineering your own goal. Number three, asking
yourself what you should do and how you should do it. Number
four, trying that shit. And if it doesn't work, then you
move on to the next four steps. You acknowledge your
ignorance and their expertise, right? Number two, you
describe the situation clearly and concisely. Don't waste
people's time. Number three, you explain what you did to try
to solve your own problem. And number four, you ask what
they would do if they were you. If you apply this simple
method of asking for advice, I guarantee that people will
not only be happier to give you advice or help or answer
your questions, but you'll get better advice and better
answers to your questions. Alright? I'm by no means a
communications expert, an advice expert, or nothing like
that, but this is just from years of talking to people every
single day. Years of teaching English online and people
asking the same kinds of questions in the same ways. Years
of trying to figure out how to do or achieve certain goals
in my own life, and having to ask other people for advice
and find answers to questions. This is all based on my
personal experience. So this is not like the law. This is
not fact. This is just my opinion and my perspective on what
I think is the right way to ask for advice.